README.md, before:

# Inventory

### Setup

#### Requirements
- General:
  - Node with generators
  - MySQL
- Arch Linux: `sudo pacman -S nodejs npm mariadb`
- Ubuntu: `sudo apt-get install nodejs npm mysql-server`

#### Running
Set up and start MySQL. Look at `config/example.json` and create your own under `config/default.json` or see https://github.com/lorenwest/node-config for the various things you can do with the config.
```
git clone https://github.com/vitaliyrd/inventory-backend
npm install
npm start
```

### Usage

#### Entries
The database is centered on Entries. These are the physical things in your inventory.
- `GET /entries` `application/json`
```json
  [
    {
      "brand": "Ibanez",
      "category": {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "Guitars",
        "notes": "Guitars and their accessories"
      },
      "checkedIn": true,
      "id": 1,
      "itemId": 1,
      "location": {
        "buildingNo": "Main Building",
        "floorNo": "3",
        "id": 1,
        "name": "Drum Room",
        "notes": "Off the side of the youth room stage",
        "roomNo": null
      },
      "lost": false,
      "model": "RG",
      "name": "Andrey's Guitar",
      "needsService": false,
      "notes": "Blue color",
      "serialNo": "abc"
    },
    {
      "brand": "Shure",
      "category": {
        "id": 2,
        "name": "Microphones",
        "notes": "Microphones and their cables\/accessories"
      },
      "checkedIn": true,
      "id": 2,
      "itemId": 2,
      "location": {
        "buildingNo": "Main Building",
        "floorNo": "3",
        "id": 2,
        "name": "Youth Room",
        "notes": null,
        "roomNo": null
      },
      "lost": false,
      "model": "SM58",
      "name": "Youth Mic",
      "needsService": false,
      "notes": null,
      "serialNo": "def"
    }
  ]
```
- `GET /entries/by-category/{categoryId}` Filter entries to those in the specified category
- `GET /entries/by-location/{locationId}` Filter entries to those in the specified location
- `POST /entries` `application/json` Not implemented yet.
  Automatically detects if you are using an existing Item template. If you are, we simply use that itemId. If not, we create a new Item template from the data you gave. Will also create category and location if you do not specify an id for them.
```json
  {
    "brand": "Ibanez",
    "category": {
      "id": 1,
      "name": "Guitars",
      "notes": "Guitars are cool"
    },
    "checkedIn": true,
    "location": {
      "id": 1,
      "name": "Some Storage Room",
      "buildingNo": "Main",
      "floorNo": "2",
      "roomNo": "208",
      "notes": "IDK"
    },
    "lost": false,
    "model": "RG",
    "name": "Andrey's Guitar",
    "needsService": false,
    "notes": "Blue color",
    "serialNo": "abc"
  }
```
- `DELETE /entries/{itemId}/{serialNo}` Delete an entry.

#### Items
Items are templates that are common to multiple entries. For example, suppose there are 5 Fulltone OCDs in your inventory. Rather than duplicating that information 5 times, there is an item that the 5 OCD entries are linked to.
  - `POST /items/autocomplete` Not implemented yet.
  Autocompletes items based on data the user is entering into a create screen. This will return a list of item templates you could show in a dropdown. If they select one of the templates, the client should fill in the rest of the fields from the template. Then `POST /entries` will recognize that you are using an existing Item, unless the user changes some fields, in which case, a new entry will be created.

#### Categories
- `GET /categories`
```json
  [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "name": "Guitars",
      "notes": "Guitars and their accessories"
    },
    {
      "id": 2,
      "name": "Microphones",
      "notes": "Microphones and their cables\/accessories"
    }
  ]
```

#### Locations
- `GET /locations`
```json
  [
    {
      "buildingNo": "Main Building",
      "floorNo": "3",
      "id": 1,
      "name": "Drum Room",
      "notes": "Off the side of the youth room stage",
      "roomNo": null
    },
    {
      "buildingNo": "Main Building",
      "floorNo": "3",
      "id": 2,
      "name": "Youth Room",
      "notes": null,
      "roomNo": null
    }
  ]
```

Commit message:

Update entries through POST /entries

README.md, after:

# Inventory

### Setup

#### Requirements
- General:
  - Node with generators
  - MySQL
- Arch Linux: `sudo pacman -S nodejs npm mariadb`
- Ubuntu: `sudo apt-get install nodejs npm mysql-server`

#### Running
Set up and start MySQL. Look at `config/example.json` and create your own under `config/default.json` or see https://github.com/lorenwest/node-config for the various things you can do with the config.
```
git clone https://github.com/vitaliyrd/inventory-backend
npm install
npm start
```

### Usage

#### Entries
The database is centered on Entries. These are the physical things in your inventory.
- `GET /entries` `application/json`
```json
  [
    {
      "brand": "Ibanez",
      "category": {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "Guitars",
        "notes": "Guitars and their accessories"
      },
      "checkedIn": true,
      "id": 1,
      "itemId": 1,
      "location": {
        "buildingNo": "Main Building",
        "floorNo": "3",
        "id": 1,
        "name": "Drum Room",
        "notes": "Off the side of the youth room stage",
        "roomNo": null
      },
      "lost": false,
      "model": "RG",
      "name": "Andrey's Guitar",
      "needsService": false,
      "notes": "Blue color",
      "serialNo": "abc"
    },
    {
      "brand": "Shure",
      "category": {
        "id": 2,
        "name": "Microphones",
        "notes": "Microphones and their cables\/accessories"
      },
      "checkedIn": true,
      "id": 2,
      "itemId": 2,
      "location": {
        "buildingNo": "Main Building",
        "floorNo": "3",
        "id": 2,
        "name": "Youth Room",
        "notes": null,
        "roomNo": null
      },
      "lost": false,
      "model": "SM58",
      "name": "Youth Mic",
      "needsService": false,
      "notes": null,
      "serialNo": "def"
    }
  ]
```
- `GET /entries/by-category/{categoryId}` Filter entries to those in the specified category
- `GET /entries/by-location/{locationId}` Filter entries to those in the specified location
- `POST /entries` `application/json` Not implemented yet.
  Automatically detects if you are using an existing Item template. If you are, we simply use that itemId. If not, we create a new Item template from the data you gave. Will also create category and location if you do not specify an id for them. If your item's itemId and serialNo already exist, it will update that entry instead of creating a new one.
```json
  {
    "brand": "Ibanez",
    "category": {
      "id": 1,
      "name": "Guitars",
      "notes": "Guitars are cool"
    },
    "checkedIn": true,
    "location": {
      "id": 1,
      "name": "Some Storage Room",
      "buildingNo": "Main",
      "floorNo": "2",
      "roomNo": "208",
      "notes": "IDK"
    },
    "lost": false,
    "model": "RG",
    "name": "Andrey's Guitar",
    "needsService": false,
    "notes": "Blue color",
    "serialNo": "abc"
  }
```
- `DELETE /entries/{itemId}/{serialNo}` Delete an entry.

#### Items
Items are templates that are common to multiple entries. For example, suppose there are 5 Fulltone OCDs in your inventory. Rather than duplicating that information 5 times, there is an item that the 5 OCD entries are linked to.
  - `POST /items/autocomplete` Not implemented yet.
  Autocompletes items based on data the user is entering into a create screen. This will return a list of item templates you could show in a dropdown. If they select one of the templates, the client should fill in the rest of the fields from the template. Then `POST /entries` will recognize that you are using an existing Item, unless the user changes some fields, in which case, a new entry will be created.

#### Categories
- `GET /categories`
```json
  [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "name": "Guitars",
      "notes": "Guitars and their accessories"
    },
    {
      "id": 2,
      "name": "Microphones",
      "notes": "Microphones and their cables\/accessories"
    }
  ]
```

#### Locations
- `GET /locations`
```json
  [
    {
      "buildingNo": "Main Building",
      "floorNo": "3",
      "id": 1,
      "name": "Drum Room",
      "notes": "Off the side of the youth room stage",
      "roomNo": null
    },
    {
      "buildingNo": "Main Building",
      "floorNo": "3",
      "id": 2,
      "name": "Youth Room",
      "notes": null,
      "roomNo": null
    }
  ]
```
